Editorial review: Document Translator and Language Detector APIs (#39457)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/translator/create_static/index.md

---
title: "Translator: create() static method"
short-title: create()
slug: Web/API/Translator/create_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.Translator.create_static
---

{{APIRef("Translator and Language Detector APIs")}}{{securecontext_header}}

> The **`create()`** static method of the {{domxref("Translator")}} interface creates a new `Translator` instance from which to generate translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`create()`** static method of the {{domxref("Translator")}} interface creates a new `Translator` instance that can be used to translate text.
```

Mostly the " from which to" read a bit odd

> 

Reviewer: Add a note that this requires transient activation (I see from your errors). There is a standard way to do this you can copy that links to the definition. Also add to any others that require it.

Usually I add a Security considerations section in the API Overview as well that covers this and the permissions.

Author: > Add a note that this requires transient activation (I see from your errors). There is a standard way to do this you can copy that links to the definition. Also add to any others that require it.

I couldn't find any information about the "standard" way (I looked through loads of features that require transient activation, and they all seemed to do it differently), so I just copied a note from one of my previous bits of work.

> Usually I add a Security considerations section in the API Overview as well that covers this and the permissions.

I've done this too.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Translator.create(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options`

  - : An object specifying configuration options for the `Translator`. Possible values include:

>     - `sourceLanguage`

Reviewer: Has a default?
```suggestion
    - `sourceLanguage` {{optional_inline}}
```

Reviewer: Ditto target language

Reviewer: ... and should we comment on what happens if you translate to the same language?

      - : A string specifying the expected language of the input text to be translated, which should be a valid [BCP 47 language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IETF_language_tag#List_of_common_primary_language_subtags) (as specified in [RFC 5646](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5646)). Defaults to `en`.
    - `targetLanguage`
      - : A string specifying the language that the input text will be translated into, which should be valid BCP 47 language tag. Defaults to `en`.
    - `monitor` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A callback function with a {{domxref("CreateMonitor")}} argument that enables monitoring download progress of the AI model.
    - `signal` {{optional_inline}}
      - : An {{domxref("AbortSignal")}} object instance, which allows the `create()` operation to be aborted via the associated {{domxref("AbortController")}}.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that fulfills with a `Translator` object instance.

### Exceptions

- `InvalidStateError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the page's {{domxref("Document")}} is not yet active.
- `NetworkError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Thrown in any of the following circumstances:

Reviewer: Or for all of these ...
```suggestion
  - : Thrown if:
```

Author: Yeah, good call. I've done a blanket search and replace for all of these.

    - The network was not available to download the AI model.
    - The user has cancelled the AI model download.
- `NotAllowedError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown in any of the following circumstances:
    - Usage of the method is blocked by a {{httpheader('Permissions-Policy/translator','translator')}} {{httpheader("Permissions-Policy")}}.

>     - The user has blocked the AI model download in some way.

Reviewer: FMI What way. I mean they cancelled download, but that's a networkerror.

Author: I am not sure. It says it somewhere in the spec, but doesn't provide any specifics. I was thinking maybe when the user denies permission at the permission prompt, but ... this spec doesn't use a permission prompt ;-/

Maybe I should just delete it?

Reviewer: I think I'd leave it - on the off chance there is some other way/setting to block downloads. At least we'd be giving users a hint.
